CDS.Security (E2025)
EASV Skabelon til nye kurser
Announcements



The first lesson in CDS.Sec for international class is Thu 8/28/2025 8:15 - 11:30 in D16.

Den første lektion i CDS.Sec for dansk klasse er Fredag 8/29/2025 8:15 - 11:30 i D18.

Please notice the change in rooms.


About this course
Announcements

Course plan
Curriculum: Curriculum for Computer Science

Executive order: BEK nr 708 af 09/06/2023

Week 
(opt. lecturer)	Topic	Learning objectives from curriculum
33/TGT

 	
 

34/TGT

 	 
35

Introduction	K1
36

Virtualization	S1
37

Docker	S1, K2
38

Deployment	K2
39

Authentication	S3
40

Session	S2, S3
41

Authorization	S3
42

 	 
43

Web security	S3
44

Cloud 1	K1, S4, C1
45

Cloud 2	K1, S4, C2
46

Recap	 
47

 	 
48

 	 
49

 	 
50

 	 
51

 	 
52

 	 
Exam

The interdisciplinary semester project with exam in January. Information regarding this exam will be uploaded in the general semester information Moodle room.


Exam Info
The formalities regarding the exam is described in the curriculum (2024 revision, can be downloaded here https://www.easv.dk/da/uddannelser/datamatiker/?tab=Uddannelsen )

Detailed exam procedure will be announced soon.

Information regarding the project and case can be found in section "3rd semester" in the general info Moodle room.


W35: Introduction
About this week
This first week will be an introduction to the course and the subjects within.

Agenda:

What the course is about
Introduction to distributed systems
Basics of IT/cybersecurity
Play board game

Slides

Learning activities
Board game (Kampen mod Cybermørket)

Game rules

Spilleregler

W36: Virtualisation
About this week
The topic for today is virtualization. You already had some theory about it last semester. So the lecture will just be a brief refresher before we get into some hands-on exercises.

Presentation on virtualization.
Experience the power of VMs by exploring most popular Linux flavor straight from your desktop.
Introduction to Linux command line
Host React on a Linux server
Cheat sheets

Videos
Windows: Install Ubuntu Server in VM
Mac: Install Ubuntu Server in VM
Linux: Install Ubuntu Server in VM
Host an SPA with Nginx

Slides

Learning activities
Before you can start this week's exercises, you will need to install some desktop virtualization software on your laptop. Download and install, either:

VirtualBox
For Windows and Intel based Macs (old Macs)
UTM
For Mac with Apple Silicon (all newer Macs)
Ask if you are unsure which program to install.

Next you need to download file to install a guest OS. You will need two variations of Ubuntu for the exercises.

For Windows, download:

ubuntu-25.04-desktop-amd64.iso
ubuntu-24.04.3-live-server-amd64.iso
For Mac, download:

ubuntu-25.04-desktop-arm64.iso
ubuntu-24.04.3-live-server-arm64.iso
Desktop Linux
First you need to create a VM with Ubuntu Desktop file.

Explorer how it works and what programs are available.

Desktop Linux - alternative
Already familiar with Ubuntu/GNOME ? Try this instead:

Create a VM with Ubuntu Desktop. Once your VM is booted, open a Terminal and run the following.

sudo apt install sway* sfwbar
Logout after installation is complete.
Click the gear icon down in the corner.
Select "Sway" and login again
Can you figure out how to navigate it?

Linux/Unix CLI
Use either Ubuntu Server VM or Ubuntu Desktop VM.

In this exercise you will learn how to navigate the command line of Linux by playing a small game.

Open a terminal inside Ubuntu and execute the following commands to get started.

curl -O https://gitlab.com/slackermedia/bashcrawl/-/archive/stable-2024.02.09/bashcrawl-stable-2024.02.09.tar.gz
tar zxf bashcrawl-stable-2024.02.09.tar.gz
mv bashcrawl-stable-2024.02.09 bashcrawl
cd bashcrawl/entrance/
cat scroll
Web server in VM
Use Ubuntu Server VM.

Let's see how we can deploy a React app to a traditional web-server on a VM.


Host an SPA with Nginx

W37: Docker
About this week
What are containers
How can we use them
How can we make our own
Please bring headphones or earbuds to class.


Slides

Learning activities
Download and install Docker (if you haven't got it already)
Windows
Mac
Linux
IMPORTANT: Make sure you have version 4.44.3 or newer, because it fixes CVE-2025-9074

On first startup, it will ask you to create an account. Just click "skip".


Docker CLI Introduction

React Docker Tutorial - text

React Docker Tutorial - video

W38: Deployment
About this week
Docker for local development
Managing secrets
Deploy containers

Slides

Learning resources
An environment variable is a user-definable value that can affect the way running processes will behave on a computer. Environment variables are part of the environment in which a process runs.


📺 Secrets in .NET

Tools and Best Practices for Secret Management in .NET

Learning activities

Deploy React and ASP.NET to Fly.io

W39: Authentication
About this week
What are good passwords
How to store passwords
How to authenticate users with passwords

Slides

Learning resources

Describe authentication and authorization in cybersecurity

Learning activities
Clone the starter project. Then complete the exercise.


Exercise video

Exercise text

Links
Is your password strong

Password Strength Testing Tool
Password Cracking Calculator
Passphrase Cracking Calculator
Password storage

Password Storage Cheat Sheet
Password managers

Using a password manager for your personal accounts is an excellent idea. Here is a short list of options:

Proton Pass (service)
Bitwarden (service)
KeePassXC (local)

W40: Session
About this week
We can authenticate user. Now what?

HTTP is a stateless protocol. So, how do we keep track of users across requests? We don't want our users to have to re-authentication each time they click something, right?

The answer is session management.

We will discuss tokens and cookies.


Slides

Learning resources
Note: Session and cookie authentication means the same


Session Vs JWT: The Differences You May Not Know!

Why is JWT popular?

Learning activities
In last weeks workshop we implemented password-based authentication using secure hashing.

This week's workshop builds on the previous week. Today we're going to add session management.


Teacher and course evaluation

Exercise text

Exercise video

W41: Authorization
About this week
Knowing who the user are doesn't make a web app secure. We need to be able to specify rule on what they can and can't access.

This concludes our 3 part series on implementing authentication, session management and authorization.


Slides

Learning activities

Exercise text

Exercise video

W42: Autumn holiday
W43: Web security
About this week
Welcome back from vacation. Hope you enjoyed it.

We are just going to jump right into a deeply technical topic. This week is all about "hacking". Yes you read correctly, that is exactly what we will be doing do. You will all be competing in a hacking competition. Better do your homework. Remember "Learning resources" means homework that you need to do before class.

The idea is that by discussing web security from an attackers point of way, you will learn to think like an attacker, thereby teaching you the foundation for what to protect against.

We will also touch on what we can do as a developer to protect against these attacks.

Don't try any of this on other peoples systems. It is illegal and will get you in jail!


🇩🇰 Husk lektionen er flyttet til torsdag over middag.


Demo

Score

Learning resources
Install Burp Suite as shown


Getting started with Burp Suite

Only do step 1, 2 & 3
Watch the videos. Nothing else.


Create Administrative User Without Admin Privileges | Demo

IDOR Attack | Demo

📺 What are SQL Injections? // Explained in 180 seconds

📺 Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) Explained

Learning activities
The learning activity this week will be a hacking competition. You will compete to solve small challenges.

Points for each challenge you solve. Bonus points for being first.


W44: Cloud 1
About this week
Follow up on deployment
Cloud providers
Services offered by cloud providers
Inside a data center

Slides

Learning resources

Describe cloud computing

Only unit 3, 4, 6

Unit 3 - What is cloud computing
Unit 4 - Describe the shared responsibility model
Unit 6 - Describe the consumption-based model
Learning activities

Cloud storage project

W45: Cloud 2
About this week
I won't be here this week, so you have to work on you own. Continue with the project from last week.

I've been working for a while on getting Head of Product & Development at the local company WebLager to do a presentation. I'll update as soon as I know more.

Since I'm not here to help, if you get really badly stuck, then you can check out my solution here.


Learning activities
Continue with cloud storage project from last week.


Cloud storage hand-in

Submit a link to your repository.
It doesn't need to 100% perfect or fully complete.
W46: Recap + project start
About this week
I will go over some of the key theory from previous lessons. No way I can cover it all in just a couple of hours, so I'll focus on the parts that relates to deployment and security requirements for exam project.

I have a simplified version on how authentication and session is setup by the script for flyimager assignment.

See: Bootstrap Identity

Official docs: How to use Identity to secure a Web API backend for SPAs